Alright, we're gonna get into the U of CRUD
and that is the update.
So, a couple things we need to do is
we need to first jump into our back end
and update the interface for that,
and then we'll come back into the front end
and actually write the interface for doing that.
So, flippin' over to pink, which is back end,
and we are going to first open up our schema at graphql.
There's gonna be kinda two things that we need here.
First, we're gonna need a query for a single item.
And that's gonna allow us to click on Edit
and pull the existing information about that item.
And then second we're gonna need a mutation
that will actually handle the updating of the item.
It's going to be very similar to how the createItem works,
but slightly different because we're just
folding in our updates.
So, let's do the mutation first.
We'll call it updateItem.
That is going to take in a ID, which is an ID.
It's going to take in a title, which is a string.
It's going to take in a description, which is a string.
You notice how I'm not requiring any of these,
and that's because we might not necessarily
pass the title if it's not updated.
We're only going to be passing the data
that does get updated.
And the price, which is going to be an integer.
That is going to return an Item,
and that is required regardless of what we have.
I'm gonna lay off the image and the largeImage on here,
but I do, if you are looking for a little bit
of extra practice once you're done with this course,
then I'd say go back and figure out,
how do I add that whole upload flow to my update,
that we did to the createItem?
Second, we're gonna go into Query,
and we're going to query a single Item.
It's going to be item, that is going to take
one argument, which is where,
and the type of that argument where
is going to be ItemWhereUniqueInput.
That is required.
Let me show you.
You might be saying, like, Wes,
where did ItemWhereUniqueInput come from?
Well, let's go to our prisma.graphql,
which again is generated for us,
and if you scroll down to where the query is,
you're gonna see that they already have an item query
that takes one argument called ItemWhereUniqueInput
and returns an Item.
You can actually just go ahead
and copy that and paste it.
You see that we're returning an Item.
There's no bang on the end because it's possible
that we pass it, like something where it doesn't exist,
and if that's the case, it's not gonna return an Item.
We don't want it to error out, that we have there.
So, that is good, and you might be saying,
okay, what is ItemWhereUniqueInput?
Well, it's just an input where you pass an ID.
We could also just say, okay, pass us an ID
which is an ID, but let's kinda keep it the same.
Where I can make it the same as prisma.graphql,
I would like to do that.
So, that looks good to us.
Now we need to write resolvers
for both our updateItem and for our item.
So let's do the item first, since it's the simplest.
We'll just go into Query,
and we just pretty much just duplicate this items
and forward it directly to the database.
Because there's no extra logic,
there's no permissions that need to happen,
there's no logic in-between,
you're actually querying the items,
so you can just forward that directly
over to the database, and give it a save.
Let's actually test that that works.
So, if we go to
our local host, what was that, 4444?
No, what was that?
The way you can tell is, oh, I got a bit of an error.
Maybe that's what it was.
Syntax error cannot parse unexpected character backtick.
What did I do?
Oh, what happened there?
There we go.
It's running, it is on local host 4444.
Open it up.
You're gonna create a new tab called query SINGLE_ITEM,
and that is going to grab an Item,
where the ID
is equal to, and in this case,
I actually don't know the name of any of them,
so can we query all of our items?
There we go, let's grab cool shoes ID,
where the ID is equal to this,
and then return from that, we want the title,
the description, and the ID.
Run it, beautiful.
You see that that query is actually working,
item, where ID is equal to that specific ID.
Good, now let's go ahead and write the resolver
for our updateItem.
So, we'll go into our Mutation,
and we already have this createItem.
Get rid of this dog stuff here.
Make an updateItem.
That takes in a parent, args, context, and info.
And what we're gonna do is first take a copy
of the updates.
const updates is equal to ...args
and this is just gonna take a copy
of everything that is in the updates.
Then we're going to remove the ID from the updates,
because this is actually going to give us the ID
that gets passed in, and we're not gonna update the ID.
The ID is not something you can update.
So we wanna remove it from the updates.
So we'll say, delete updates.id
and then finally, we'll run the update method.
So, return ctx.db.mutation.updateItem
So again, context is the context in the request,
db is how we expose the actual prisma database to ourselves.
Then on top of that, we either have a query
or a mutation, and then we have access
to all of the mutations that are generated.
So, let's take a look here.
See, this is our mutation, this is our API.
This is all the things that we have access to inside of it.
So we can simply go here, updateItem,
that takes in, well what does it take in?
We can look here.
updateItem takes in data, and a where.
So the where is how we tell it which Item to update.
And the data is what data we actually want it to update.
So, go here.
We'll say the data is going to be the updates,
and the where is going to be
where the id is equal to the args.id.
So that's why we didn't just delete the ID
directly on the argument object.
We took a copy of it because we actually
still need to reference the ID of the item
that is being pulled in.
Since we are returning this promise-based function,
it will wait for that update to pass.
Finally, we also need to pass in a second argument,
which is the info, and that's how
this updateItem function knows what to return.
And if we take a look here, the updateItem is expecting us
to return an item, so this will contain the query
that we send in from the client side
to return that item.
So I think that's enough for our back end.
Let's flip over to the front end now.
And let's open up the CreateItem.js.
And we're going to be reusing a lot of the markup.
It's almost close enough where you could probably
put the Update and Create in a single file,
but that starts to get a little hairy with a lot of logic.
I much prefer just to have two separate components
used for updating and creating,
but we'll sort of start at this as the base.
Go ahead and save a copy of CreateItem,
and name it UpdateItem.
And a couple things we wanna do.
First, I want to rename CreateItem to Update Item.
Second, we want to change CREATE_ITEM_MUTATION
anywhere it's accessible, so this is one, two,
three, four places in this thing.
We're gonna make it UPDATE_ITEM_MUTATION.
Next we actually want to rip out
the uploadFile handler that we have here.
So let's get rid of that.
We will also get rid of the Image.
Get rid of that.
And finally, this is, actually let's just get
this showing on the page first.
I think we did enough there.
We'll come back and actually work on this.
So, we're going to make a page,
so go to your pages directory.
Make a new file called Update.js.
And we can take a look at our Sell page
for the very similar one.
Just copy everything from Sell,
paste it into Update,
replace CreateItem with UpdateItem.
Now the one thing that does need to be passed
is the ID of the item, because if we go
to our application here, and I click on Edit
for the Nike 270s, it's gonna bring us
to this Update page, where the query param
is the actual ID of the item that we're trying to sell.
So, that ID is only available in that page,
and if you want it to be accessible at lower levels,
you can either export your component
with a thing called withRouter, and that will expose it,
or you can, you do have access to it on a page level
because if you take a look at our app.js,
remember we did this, pageProps.query equals ctx.query?
We're exposing the query to every single page
that we have, so that means it's available
inside of this UpdateItem that we have here.
So you can pass it down here.
We'll say, the id is equal to this, which is the component,
dot props dot query dot id.
And, oh, a little bit of an error here.
Cannot read property query of undefined.
So it's telling me that I don't have,
oh, you know why, it's because I made this
a stateless component, not a React component.
So what we need to do here is not use this.props,
we can simply just say props.query.id,
and pass it in.
What other people like to do is just use
structure props immediately, which is kinda nifty.
So instead of saying props, you can put it
in parentheses, destructure that into the query directly,
and then in here you can access the query just like that,
and it seems to work.
Let's just double check that,
where if we go to our React DevTools,
and you look for your Sell component,
you see that we have this.props.query.id
available to us, and if I were to put more things
in the URL, wes equals cool, you see
that the query now has ID and wes equals cool.
That should have been passed down to our UpdateItem.
And you see that the Props of this UpdateItem component
is now being visible to us.
So, good, we have access to it here.
Now, let's jump back to our UpdateItem.js.
And, a couple things we wanna do here.
First, we can get rid of everything in our initial state
because this is a little bit different
in that we're only going to be putting things
into state which have changed.
So, we'll make this state a blank object in this case.
Next we actually need to get access to the item itself,
because when I refresh this page,
we don't actually have access to the item.
All we know is the actual database ID,
and we need to pull that from the database
in order to populate the item so that
the user can see what they're editing, right?
So we're gonna do that with a query
for that specific item.
Let's go up here, and we'll make a new query
called SINGLE_ITEM_QUERY.
And we'll write our query.
That takes in one argument, which is an ID.
Has a type of ID, and it is required.
And that is actually gonna run it
against the database with our item query.
It takes a where.
The ID is equal to our ID that gets passed in.
And returned from that, we need to get
the ID, the title,
the description,
and the price.
And we import our query component.
We'll go over here, where it will write a query component
to wrap the entire thing.
And as we start to nest multiple queries and mutations
inside of each other, I'm gonna show you a little trick
that will allow us to compose them into one
because this does get a little indenty for my likings.
The query, where the query is going to be equal
to the one that we just wrote, which is SINGLE_ITEM_QUERY,
and then the variables that that query needs
is just the IDs, so say variables is equal to,
and you have to give it an object,
where the id is equal to this.props.id again,
because we're passing in,
if we go over to our React DevTools,
oh, it's obviously not going to work.
Here, let me must show you real quick.
Remove that out, we search for our UpdateItem,
you see that this .props id is available to us.
Good, then inside of the query we need to have a function,
so we'll give ourselves curly brackets.
That'll give us the data and the loading,
we'll just use that for now.
And from that we will just return,
let's just return curly brackets.
Now, this is where things get a little bit weird.
We need to take this parentheses,
this curly bracket, and this query,
and we actually need to return the mutation, right?
Because we're nesting the mutation inside of the query,
which in turn will have the form that expose
multiple queries and mutations to it.
So, let's go for a little bit of a ride.
♪ Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo ♪
All the way down, right there.
Thank goodness for Prettier, gonna give it a save.
And, hoooo, that is lookin' a little bit gnarly to me.
Again, we'll go into how you can get away from this
because it probably reminds you
of writing XML 14 years ago, not great.
Let's go back up, see what we're working with here.
Oh my, so the one thing that Prettier did is,
I actually want to run an if statement here,
and with the implicit return, you can't just go ahead
and start running if statements here
because you need a Javascript block in order
to do that, and not just an implicit return.
So, I'm gonna switch that back,
so put a curly bracket here, type return
in front of the thing that you want.
Up here we're gonna say if loading return
paragraph loading da da da dat.
And then we gotta match up that other curly bracket
and hopefully this doesn't ruin your afternoon
trying to find it, but I like to use
this match bracket highlighter here,
so go doo doo doo, actually we'll click on this one,
and find the closing parenthesis.
There we go, add another curly bracket to it.
And, it looks like nothing broke.
We're actually in pretty good shape.
So, if this seems like a lot, it's because it is.
We have our query here, then we have that
render prop function, then we do a check
if it's loading or not, then if it's not loading,
we are going to return our mutation,
which in turn will render out the form tag,
and that exposes both the data of the item
as well as the UpdateItem function,
which we're gonna rename in just a second.
Woo!
Alright, so next up we wanna take the data
that was returned from our SINGLE_ITEM_QUERY,
and put it into these input boxes.
However, I don't wanna tie it to state directly.
I wanna show the user what they have,
and then if they change anything,
I wanna then put it into state.
So the way we do that is, we go to each one.
We're gonna change value to defaultValue.
That is setting a one-time value into the,
and in React, the default value allows us
to set a input box to some text
without actually tying it to state
because we're going to be actually mirroring this thing
to state only when they change it.
And then we'll change the default value
not to this.state.title, but to data.item.title.
And we'll do that again.
Let's just actually see if that one will work.
Hit refresh, there we go.
So, Nike 270s show up.
And if I were to look for my UpdateItem,
state is empty, but as soon as I change this,
you see that the new state of the change
is now being mirrored to state.
Let's do that with the price as well.
It's gonna be defaultValue of data.item.price.
And then we'll do that for the description.
data.item.desciption
Give it a refresh, good.
Now you see, if we take a quick look
at our UpdateItem, state is empty,
but I've entered a change.
The changes are now being reflected into state.
Okay, good, good, good.
Maybe we'll change the Submit to Save Changes.
What we wanna do now is to actually modify
this query that we have here, UPDATE_ITEM_MUTATION,
where it's gonna take in a title, description, and a price.
We don't need to pass the image or the largeImage.
And it's going to return the id, the title,
the description, and the price.
Then we'll go down to our mutation component.
And remember how we called it createItem here?
Let's call it updateItem.
And instead of doing the onSubmit in line here,
'cause I showed you that in the last one,
let's actually shell it off to another function.
When I was initially doing this,
my question was, if everything is a render prop,
how do you access this updateItem function
outside of your render component, right?
Like, how do I even access that?
The answer to that is, you have to pass it
to a function when it's submitted.
So, let's take this onSubmit, and,
let's actually just get rid of it altogether.
Let's start fresh.
There's a lot going on here.
Form, we'll say onSubmit is equal to,
and we'll take the event because we need
the actual event that is happening,
and we'll make a new function called this.updateItem,
and we'll pass the event as well as
the updateItem mutation call.
So that's how you can pass methods
to a component method, so we're gonna go ahead
and write that ourselves.
We'll say, updateItem is equal to,
we get the update the event as well as
the updateItem mutation, let's just call that
mutation so we're different than the handler
and the actual mutation itself.
And then inside of that, let's just say
Updating Item,
console.log this.state.
Go to our console here.
Change all of these inputs a little bit.
Give it a save.
And, uhhh, it didn't work.
Why not?
The changes actually went to the title here.
That's because I forgot to call e.prevent default,
and actually this is, let's take
a quick pause from this a second.
If you go to the Update page, and don't pass it
an ID, or you pass an ID is not real,
it actually gives us an error,
cannot read property title of null.
And that's because our query here,
what you can actually do is, say,
if there is no data.item,
then return No Item Found
for ID this.props.id.
There you go.
No item found for ID, not real.
And edit the 270s, everything works.
Good, so we handled that.
It's always helpful to try to break it yourself
so you can find those little edge cases.
In that case, the error wouldn't give us anything.
But because it would return data of nothing,
in our case we have to check for that specific data.
Anyway, we were up here with this updateItem.
We were preventing default on that.
Does that work now, if I were to change this and save?
There we go, we're saying updateItem,
and then state is a copy of only the fields
that have then changed.
What we can do is we can call this
updateItem mutation ourselves, so say,
const response, r-e-s, is equal to await updateItemMutation,
and in the last one, we just called that,
because we passed the variables to the mutation.
I'm gonna show you how you can pass them
via an argument here, so you can pass
the updateItemMutation to something called variables.
Variables, so we can't say this.state,
because it doesn't have the ID of the item in there.
So, we're gonna have to make our own,
so we'll say the id is equal to this.props.id,
and then we'll also just spread in any
of the changes that need to come along for the ride.
So, this.state, that's gonna contain it.
If you would have other stuff in your state,
it might be worth it to make a sub-item,
called like, item inside of here,
and put all of your changes inside of that.
But because this is, anything that goes into state
is going to be a change, it's totally fine
to leave it that way.
So, we got that, we're awaiting it,
Since we're awaiting it, we need
to make this an async function,
and then, let's just give a quick console.log,
Updated.
So, we'll change Nike 270s to Nike 99,
save changes, and this is actually kinda neat.
We got some errors here happening,
and it handled them properly because our mutation
has this error here, and it came back
from the mutation and said, okay,
there's an actual error, so we can't happen.
So, it's telling us that the variable description
of required string was not provided,
and the price, 'cause I only changed the title.
I bet if I tried to save it with no changes,
it will tell me all three.
Yeah, see?
So, why is that required?
Let's take a look here at our query.
Oh, and that's because string isn't required.
Price isn't required.
And neither is title.
So, give that a save.
Now, if we refresh it, and change these
to Nike 99, save changes, oh, one more problem.
Shoot, variable data got invalid value,
title, field value.description of,
the description is required.
So now, maybe something on the back end
we accidentally had marked as required.
So let's take a look at that.
ID is required.
Title, no.
Description, no.
Price, no.
Oh, and I figured it out, this is the problem
with copy pasting from the CreateItem.
We forgot to change the name of the function
that gets run on the server from createItem
to updateItem.
And that should do it for us, so,
let's give it a fresh refresh, change this to Nike 99,
give it a save, and, oh my gosh!
Update argument ID, type of ID
was required, but not provided.
What is going on?
Oh, we forgot to actually pass the ID in the mutation.
This is where graphql, because it is so strictly typed,
even though we are passing the ID right here,
because the UPDATE_ITEM_MUTATION was not expecting it,
it just ignored it from us, so,
I'm gonna leave all these little errors in
because I think it's helpful to see the common stuff
that you trip up on, and what the debugging looks like.
So, we'll add that in real quick.
So there's going to be a variable pass
called id which has a type of id,
and that is the only thing that is required here.
And then, when we run it, we're also going to pass
the id, which is the variable id.
Okay, is it gonna work?
If not, I'm gonna quit my job and move to the forest
and become a lumberjack, which I probably
wouldn't be very good at either.
Save, hey hey!
Updated! It worked.
Actually, it's kinda cool.
You see that our loading kicked in real quick.
And now if I refresh the page,
you see that Nike 99 is there.
Let's change the price to 200,
and say real cool.
Save changes, and it looks like it worked out.
One kinda little fun thing that I like to do is,
if we go down here, we can take that loading variable
and have a little bit of fun.
So you can say Sav, and then if it's loading,
i-n-g, otherwise, e.
And that should say, and that should change the word
to Saving whenever I click on it, and flip it back.
That's why I love Apollo so much,
is that it just gives you this loading boolean,
and you can do really easy things
that make the user interface better for your user.
So, that is updating our items.
We've created, we've read, we've updated.
Next up, delete.
It's gonna be actually really really simple.
(laughing) It's gonna be one of the shorter videos,
so I'll see you in there.